# Group Constant Generation for Godiva Sphere with OpenMC

In this tutorial, I demonstrate how to use OpenMC to generate group constants for Moltres using `moltres_xs.py`.

To run these input files and subsequent group constant generation scripts, the user must install OpenMC (https://github.com/openmc-dev/openmc/). 

### OpenMC Input File 
In this directory, there are 2 OpenMC input files for 900K and 1200K simulations: `godiva_openmc_900.py` and `godiva_openmc_1200.py`. Unlike Scale and Serpent, OpenMC does not have a notion of branches to generate group constants for different temperatures and burnups. Thus, separate input files for different temperatures is required. 

The user must include the `openmc_xs.generate_openmc_tallies_xml()` function in the OpenMC input file to generate a `domain_dict`. The function sets up the OpenMC tallies required for the group constant generation. This is necessary because unlike Serpent, OpenMC does not generate all the group constant data with any simulation, the user must specify what they want. 

For this tutorial, I provide the OpenMC output files: `statepoint_900_openmc.100.h5`, `statepoint_1200_openmc.100.h5`, `summary_900.h5`, and `summary_1200.h5`. Each OpenMC simulation outputs a statepoint and summary file, both output files are required for the group constant generation. 

### moltres_xs.py Input File
`godiva_openmc.inp` is the input file that informs `moltres_xs.py` how to parse the various OpenMC output files to generate Moltres group constants. I explain the structure of the input file: 
```
[TITLE]
  *name of output json file*

[MAT]
  *number of materials*
  *names of materials listed*

[BRANCH]
  *number of branches*
  *material name* *temperature* *file index* *burnup index* *universe index* *branch index*
  
[FILES]
  *number of files*
  *statepoint file name* *openmc* *openmc input file* *summary file*
```
For OpenMC, we do not utilize the burnup and universe indexes, and suggests that users leave it as 1 so that `moltres_xs.py` correctly parses the input file. For OpenMC, we also add additional openmc input files and summary files.  

To generate the Moltres group constants, the user runs: 
```
python ../../python/moltres_xs.py godiva_openmc.inp
```
This will output `godiva_openmc.json` containing the Moltres group constants. An example of this output file can be found in `../../python/test/gold/godiva.json`.


# OpenMC Group Constant Generation 

This table outlines the OpenMC methods used by `moltres_xs.py` to calculate the group constants for Moltres. 

| Group Constant | Description | OpenMC Tally Used | Units |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| BETA_EFF | Delayed neutron fraction| mgxs.Beta() | - |
| CHI_T | Fission spectrum (total) | mgxs.Chi() | - |
| CHI_P | Fission spectrum (prompt neutrons) | mgxs.Chi(prompt=True) | - |
| CHI_D | Fission spectrum (delayed neutrons) | mgxs.ChiDelayed() | - |
| DECAY_CONSTANT | Decay rate for delayed neutron precursors | mgxs.DecayRate() | 1/s |
| DIFFCOEF | Diffusion coefficient multi-group cross section | mgxs.DiffusionCoefficient() | cm |
| FISSE | Average deposited fission energy | mgxs.KappaFissionXS() / mgxs.FissionXS() | MeV |
| FISSXS |Fission cross section | mgxs.FissionXS() | 1/cm |
| GTRANSFXS | Scattering production XS Matrix | mgxs.ScatterProbabilityMatrix() * mgxs.ScatterXS()| 1/cm |
| NSF | Fission neutron production cross section |  nu-fission / flux | 1/cm |
| RECIPVEL | Inverse neutron speed |  mgxs.InverseVelocity() | s/cm |
| REMXS | Removal cross section (out scatter + absorption) | mgxs.ScatterProbabilityMatrix() *  mgxs.ScatterXS() + mgxs.AbsorptionXS() | 1/cm |

# Serpent Comparison

I cross verify the group constants generated by OpenMC with group constants generated by Serpent. `godiva_serpent` and `godiva_serpent_res.m` are the Serpent input and output files for the Godiva sphere. `godiva_serpent.inp` generates the group constants with `moltres_xs.py`. The JSON group constants output by both Serpent and OpenMC are on similar values and orders of magnitude. 

The only notable difference is in the FISSE group constant value. Serpent outputs FISSE values of ~193 MeV, while OpenMC outputs FISSE values of ~202 MeV. A possible reason for this discrepancy is that Serpent includes neutrino energies while OpenMC does not. 
